You should NOT store the Firebase service account JSON file directly in your GitHub repo, but there are better ways to manage this when working across multiple 
machines. 

Here are some recommended approaches:

Use Environment Variables Instead of the JSON File

Instead of storing the JSON file, you can store its contents in environment variables and reconstruct it in your code when needed.

Steps:

1. Convert your JSON file into a Base64 encoded string

Run this command in your terminal:

base64 backend/config/gitbridge-app-firebase-adminsdk-fbsvc-68075fea2c.json # Use Git Bash instead of Terminal

This will output a long Base64 string. Copy that string.

2. Store the Base64 string in an environment variable

Add this to your .env file:

FIREBASE_CREDENTIALS_BASE64=your-long-base64-string

3. Modify firebase.js to reconstruct the JSON file from the environment variable

Update your firebase.js file like this:

import admin from "firebase-admin";
import dotenv from "dotenv";

dotenv.config();

if (!process.env.FIREBASE_CREDENTIALS_BASE64) {
    throw new Error("Missing Firebase credentials in environment variables.");
}

// Decode the Base64 string back into JSON
const serviceAccount = JSON.parse(Buffer.from(process.env.FIREBASE_CREDENTIALS_BASE64, 'base64').toString('utf8'));

admin.initializeApp({
    credential: admin.credential.cert(serviceAccount),
});

export const auth = admin.auth();
export const db = admin.firestore();

console.log("✅ Firebase Admin SDK initialized successfully.");

4. Deploy your .env file securely

- On your local machine, keep the .env file but make sure it is added to .gitignore so it doesn't get pushed.

- On a new machine, when you pull the repo, manually create a .env file and copy the Base64 string into it.

- For deployment (e.g., on a cloud server like Vercel, AWS, etc.), set the FIREBASE_CREDENTIALS_BASE64 as an environment variable in your hosting provider's settings.

Store the JSON File in a Secure Cloud Storage

If you don’t want to use Base64 encoding, another way is to store the JSON file securely in a private storage solution and download it when needed.

- Google Cloud Secret Manager: Store the credentials there and retrieve them in your backend.

- AWS Secrets Manager: Works the same way as Google Cloud Secret Manager.

- Private Google Drive: You can keep it in Google Drive (or any cloud storage) and manually download it when setting up a new machine.

Manually Download on a New Machine

If you don't work on new machines often, you can just manually download the Firebase JSON file from the Firebase console when setting up a new machine.

Steps:

1. Go to Firebase Console → Project Settings.

2. Scroll down to "Service accounts".

3. Click "Generate new private key".

4. Download the new key and place it in backend/config/.

5. Restart your backend server.

This is the easiest but least automated method.

Which Option is Best?

- For local development: Use Option 1 (Base64 encoding in .env).

- For production servers: Use Google Cloud Secret Manager or set the FIREBASE_CREDENTIALS_BASE64 as an environment variable.

- If you switch machines rarely: Just manually download the JSON file from Firebase when needed.
